---
title: "ownCloud is not a backup!"
date: "2015-09-03"
tags:
  - ownCloud
  - data management
---

I see a lot of people are setting up **ownCloud** these days that do not
think about what it really means to do their own data management.

A lot of people have **ownCloud** running on a server somewhere and have
the desktop sync client running on their laptop. They think their data
is safe because if their laptop gets stolen or crashes the data is still
on the server. Or that if the server crashes the data is still on the
laptop.

What they have is a mirror of their data. Not a backup. A quick search
on why mirroring is not a backup can give you all the details. But in
short mirror is not a backup because it does not protect you against:

-   File corruption
-   Viruses
-   Software bug
-   Humans (deleting a file by mistake)

This list is not complete but it does show the most common problems.

For example: if you delete a file by mistake on your laptop the file
will also be removed from your **ownCloud**. If you only notice your
mistake after a month it is very likely that your systems trashbin (if
you have any) and the **ownCloud** trashbin have already been emptied.
And you will have no way of restoring the file.

So should I dump **ownCloud**? Absolutely not! Since **ownCloud** allows
you to store all your files in 1 place it actually intergrates very
nicely with a backup system. Just setup a (proper) backup system on the
server that is running your **ownCloud**! There is plenty of material
available on how to (properly) setup a backup system.

So the homework of today is to make sure that a proper backup system is
in place. Once that is done tell all the people that you know that run
**ownCloud** to do the same.

Note:
-----

The problem described here is not unique to **ownCloud**. If your cloud
storage provider does not create backups for you then the only thing you
have is a mirror.
